There was one quote
that I really enjoyed
that you said, "Democracy
requires compromise
even when you're
100% right."
Yeah.
Did you get that
from Michelle?
Because I think --
I've been married a few years.
That was a marital tip,
as well as --
as well as a tip
about democracy.
You know, it's true.
The point I was making --
I made a couple points.
One is despite the news,
despite all the rancor,
the truth is,
if you had to be born
at any time
in human history
and you didn't know who you
were going to be ahead of time,
you didn't know you were
going to be Jimmy Fallon,
you would choose now,
because the world is actually
healthier, wealthier,
better educated,
more tolerant,
less violent
than it has ever been.
I was in Hiroshima
and thinking about the fact that
during a five-, six-year span,
60 million people were killed
around the world.
I mean,
it was just devastation.
And for all the problems
we've got now,
what I wanted to communicate
to folks was,
there's a reason
to be hopeful.
We've got challenges,
but we can deal with them.
What we also have to do, though,
if we're going to
deal with them,
is we have to recognize
that democracy means you don't
get everything you want
when you want it
all the time.
And, you know, this is something
you're teaching your 3-year-old,
but somehow Congress
sometimes doesn't get it.
Sometimes in our politics,
we expect to get everything.
And this is a big, complicated,
diverse country.
And we've got to be able
to talk to each other and listen
and occasionally compromise
and stay principled
but recognize that it's
a long march towards progress.
Speaking of compromise,
when you leave the White House,
you're going to have to kind of
compromise a little bit.
Like, do you remember
how to do stuff?
[ Laughter ]
Do you take money
out of the ATM?
The ATM thing
I remember.
Pressing buttons on elevators
I'm worried about.
[ Laughter ]
It's gonna blow your mind.
It's really fun.
It lights up.
You know, look,
I was this cool high-tech guy
when I got there, right.
And I was the first President
to have a BlackBerry.
And so years pass.
And no one else
has BlackBerrys.
And, you know, I've still got
the clip on the belt.
Oh, my goodness.
Right, and then, finally,
this year,
they said, "Good news,
Mr. President.
We're going to give you
a smartphone
instead of a BlackBerry."
I thought,
"All right, this is cool."
I've been seeing Malia and Sasha
doin' all this.
Michelle's got three of them.
She's texting
and all this.
So I'm excited.
I get the thing, and they're
like, "Well, Mr. President,
for security reasons --
It's a great phone,
state-of-the-art,
but it doesn't take pictures,
you can't text,
the phone doesn't work,
you know, you can't
play your music on it."
So basically it's like --
Does your 3-year-old have
one of those play phones?
[ Laughter ]
That's what they gave
the president of --
It's got, like,
the stickers on it.
So you're all like...
I'm going to call
Minnie Mouse.
Hi!
Hello, Minnie Mouse.
Are you there?
Your imaginary friend.
That's basically
the phone I've got.